NIP-09

Event Deletion

draft optional

A special event with kind 5, meaning &ldquo;deletion&rdquo; is defined
as having a list of one or more e tags, each referencing an event the
author is requesting to be deleted.

Each tag entry must contain an &ldquo;e&rdquo; event id and/or a tags
intended for deletion.

The event&rsquo;s content field MAY contain a text note describing the
reason for the deletion.

For example:

    {
      "kind": 5,
      "pubkey": <32-bytes hex-encoded public key of the event creator>,
      "tags": [
        ["e", "dcd59..464a2"],
        ["e", "968c5..ad7a4"],
        ["a", "<kind>:<pubkey>:<d-identifier>"]
      ],
      "content": "these posts were published by accident",
      ...other fields
    }

Relays SHOULD delete or stop publishing any referenced events that have
an identical pubkey as the deletion request. Clients SHOULD hide or
otherwise indicate a deletion status for referenced events.

Relays SHOULD continue to publish/share the deletion events
indefinitely, as clients may already have the event that&rsquo;s
intended to be deleted. Additionally, clients SHOULD broadcast deletion
events to other relays which don&rsquo;t have it.

When an a tag is used, relays SHOULD delete all versions of the
replaceable event up to the created_at timestamp of the deletion event.

Client Usage

Clients MAY choose to fully hide any events that are referenced by valid
deletion events. This includes text notes, direct messages, or other
yet-to-be defined event kinds. Alternatively, they MAY show the event
along with an icon or other indication that the author has
&ldquo;disowned&rdquo; the event. The content field MAY also be used to
replace the deleted events&rsquo; own content, although a user interface
should clearly indicate that this is a deletion reason, not the original
content.

A client MUST validate that each event pubkey referenced in the e tag of
the deletion request is identical to the deletion request pubkey, before
hiding or deleting any event. Relays can not, in general, perform this
validation and should not be treated as authoritative.

Clients display the deletion event itself in any way they choose, e.g.,
not at all, or with a prominent notice.

Relay Usage

Relays MAY validate that a deletion event only references events that
have the same pubkey as the deletion itself, however this is not
required since relays may not have knowledge of all referenced events.

Deleting a Deletion

Publishing a deletion event against a deletion has no effect. Clients
and relays are not obliged to support &ldquo;undelete&rdquo;
functionality.
