NIP-54

Wiki

draft optional

This NIP defines kind:30818 (an addressable event) for descriptions (or
encyclopedia entries) of particular subjects, and it&rsquo;s expected
that multiple people will write articles about the exact same subjects,
with either small variations or completely independent content.

Articles are identified by lowercase, normalized ascii d tags.

Articles

    {
      "content": "A wiki is a hypertext publication collaboratively edited and managed by its own audience.",
      "tags": [
        ["d", "wiki"],
        ["title", "Wiki"],
      ]
    }

d tag normalization rules

-   Any non-letter character MUST be converted to a -.
-   All letters MUST be converted to lowercase.

Content

The content should be Asciidoc with two extra functionalities: wikilinks
and nostr:&mldr; links.

Unlike normal Asciidoc links http://example.com[] that link to external
webpages, wikilinks [[]] link to other articles in the wiki. In this
case, the wiki is the entirety of Nostr. Clicking on a wikilink should
cause the client to ask relays for events with d tags equal to the
target of that wikilink.

Wikilinks can take these two forms:

1.  [[Target Page]] &ndash; in this case it will link to the page
    target-page (according to d tag normalization rules above) and be
    displayed as Target Page;
2.  [[target page|see this]] &ndash; in this case it will link to the
    page target-page, but will be displayed as see this.

nostr:... links, as per NIP-21, should link to profiles or arbitrary
Nostr events. Although it is not recommended to link to specific
versions of articles &ndash; instead the wikilink syntax should be
preferred, since it should be left to the reader and their client to
decide what version of any given article they want to read.

Optional extra tags

-   title: for when the display title should be different from the d
    tag.
-   summary: for display in lists.
-   a and e: for referencing the original event a wiki article was
    forked from.

Merge Requests

Event kind:818 represents a request to merge from a forked article into
the source. It is directed to a pubkey and references the original
article and the modified event.

[INSERT EVENT EXAMPLE]

Redirects

Event kind:30819 is also defined to stand for &ldquo;wiki
redirects&rdquo;, i.e.&nbsp;if one thinks Shell structure should
redirect to Thin-shell structure they can issue one of these events
instead of replicating the content. These events can be used for
automatically redirecting between articles on a client, but also for
generating crowdsourced &ldquo;disambiguation&rdquo; pages (common in
Wikipedia).

[INSERT EVENT EXAMPLE]

How to decide what article to display

As there could be many articles for each given name, some kind of
prioritization must be done by clients. Criteria for this should vary
between users and clients, but some means that can be used are described
below:

Reactions

NIP-25 reactions are very simple and can be used to create a simple
web-of-trust between wiki article writers and their content. While just
counting a raw number of &ldquo;likes&rdquo; is unproductive, reacting
to any wiki article event with a + can be interpreted as a
recommendation for that article specifically and a partial
recommendation of the author of that article. When 2 or 3-level deep
recommendations are followed, suddenly a big part of all the articles
may have some form of tagging.

Relays

NIP-51 lists of relays can be created with the kind 10102 and then used
by wiki clients in order to determine where to query articles first and
to rank these differently in relation to other events fetched from other
relays.

Contact lists

NIP-02 contact lists can form the basis of a recommendation system that
is then expanded with relay lists and reaction lists through nested
queries. These lists form a good starting point only because they are so
widespread.

Wiki-related contact lists

NIP-51 lists can also be used to create a list of users that are trusted
only in the context of wiki authorship or wiki curationship.

Forks

Wiki-events can tag other wiki-events with a fork marker to specify that
this event came from a different version. Both a and e tags SHOULD be
used and have the fork marker applied, to identify the exact version it
was forked from.

Deference

Wiki-events can tag other wiki-events with a defer marker to indicate
that it considers someone else&rsquo;s entry as a &ldquo;better&rdquo;
version of itself. If using a defer marker both a and e tags SHOULD be
used.

This is a stronger signal of trust than a + reaction.

This marker is useful when a user edits someone else&rsquo;s entry; if
the original author includes the editor&rsquo;s changes and the editor
doesn&rsquo;t want to keep/maintain an independent version, the link tag
could effectively be a considered a &ldquo;deletion&rdquo; of the
editor&rsquo;s version and putting that pubkey&rsquo;s WoT weight behind
the original author&rsquo;s version.

Why Asciidoc?

Wikitext is garbage and Markdown is not powerful enough (besides being
too freeform and unspecified and prone to generate incompatibilities in
the future).

Asciidoc has a strict spec, multiple implementations in many languages,
and support for features that are very much necessary in a wiki article,
like sidebars, tables (with rich markup inside cells), many levels of
headings, footnotes, superscript and subscript markup and description
lists. It is also arguably easier to read in its plaintext format than
Markdown (and certainly much better than Wikitext).

Appendix 1: Merge requests

Users can request other users to get their entries merged into someone
else&rsquo;s entry by creating a kind:818 event.

    {
      "content": "I added information about how to make hot ice-creams",
      "kind": 818,
      "tags": [
        [ "a", "30818:<destination-pubkey>:hot-ice-creams", "<relay-url>" ],
        [ "e", "<version-against-which-the-modification-was-made>", "<relay-url>" ],
        [ "p", "<destination-pubkey>" ],
        [ "e", "<version-to-be-merged>", "<relay-url>", "source" ]
      ]
    }

.content: an optional explanation detailing why this merge is being
requested. a tag: tag of the article which should be modified
(i.e.&nbsp;the target of this merge request). e tag: optional version of
the article in which this modifications is based e tag with source
marker: the ID of the event that should be merged. This event id MUST be
of a kind:30818 as defined in this NIP.

The destination-pubkey is the pubkey being requested to merge something
into their article can create [[NIP-25]] reactions that tag the kind:818
event with + or -
